Percy Jackson and the Lightning Thief
 Look, I didn't want to be a half-blood.
 If you're reading this because you think you might be one, my advice is: close this book right now.
Believe what-ever lie your mom or dad told you about your birth, and try to lead a normal life.
 Being a half-blood is dangerous. It's scary. Most of the time, it gets you killed in painful, nasty ways.
 If you're a normal kid, reading this because you think it's fiction, great. Read on. I envy you for being
able to believe that none of this ever happened.
 But if you recognize yourself in these pages—if you feel something stirring inside—stop reading
immediately. You might be one of us. And once you know that, it's only a mat-ter of time beforethey
sense it too, and they'll come for you.
 Don't say I didn't warn you.
 My name is Percy Jackson.
 I'm twelve years old. Until a few  months ago, I was a boarding student at Yancy Academy, a private
school for troubled kids in upstate New York.
 Am I a troubled kid?
 Yeah. You could say that.
 I could start at any point in my short miserable life to prove it, but things really started going bad last
May, when our sixth-grade class took a field trip to Manhattan— twenty-eight mental-case kids and two
teachers on a yellow school bus, heading to the Metropolitan Museum of Art to look at ancient Greek
Generated  b y ABC Amb er LIT Converter, http://w ww.p rocesstext.com/abclit.html
and Roman stuff.
 I know—it sounds like torture. Most Yancy field trips were.
 But Mr. Brunner, our Latin teacher, was leading this trip, so I had hopes.
 Mr. Brunner was this middle-aged guy in a motorized wheelchair. He had thinning hair and a scruffy
beard and a frayed tweed jacket, which always smelled like coffee. You wouldn't think he'd be cool, but
he told stories and jokes and let us play games in class. He also had this awesome collection of Roman
armor and weapons, so he was the only teacher whose class didn't put me to sleep.
 I hoped the trip would be okay. At least, I hoped that for once I wouldn't get in trouble.
 Boy, was I wrong.
 See, bad things happen to me on field trips. Like at my fifth-grade school, when we went to the
Saratoga battlefield, I had this accident with a Revolutionary War cannon. I wasn't aiming for the school
bus, but of course I got expelled anyway. And before that, at my fourth-grade school, when we took a
behind-the-scenes tour of the Marine World shark pool, I sort of hit the wrong lever on the catwalk and
our class took an unplanned swim. And the time before that... Well, you get the idea.
 This trip, I was determined to be good.
 All the way into the city, I put up with Nancy Bobofit, the freckly, redheaded kleptomaniac girl, hitting
my best friend Grover in the back of the head with chunks of peanut butter-and-ketchup sandwich.
 Grover was an easy target. He was scrawny. He cried when he got frustrated. He must've been held
back several grades, because he was the only sixth grader with acne and the start of a wispy beard on his
chin. On top of all that, he was crippled. He had a note excusing him from PE for the rest of his life
because he had some kind of muscular disease in his legs. He walked funny, like every step hurt him, but
don't let that fool you. You should've seen him run when it was enchilada day in the cafeteria.
 Anyway, Nancy Bobofit was throwing wads of sandwich that stuck in his curly brown hair, and she
knew I couldn't do anything back to her because I was already on probation. The headmaster had
threatened me with death by in-school suspension if anything bad, embarrassing, or even mildly
entertaining happened on this trip.
 "I'm going to kill her," I mumbled.
 Grover tried to calm me down. "It's okay. I like peanut butter."
 He dodged another piece of Nancy's lunch.
 "That's it." I started to get up, but Grover pulled me back to my seat.
 "You're already on probation," he reminded me. "You know who'll get blamed if anything happens."
 Looking back on it, I wish I'd decked Nancy Bobofit right then and there. In-school suspension
would've been nothing compared to the mess I was about to get myself into.
 Mr. Brunner led the museum tour.
 He rode up front in his wheelchair, guiding us through the big echoey galleries, past marble statues and
glass cases full of really old black-and-orange pottery.
 It blew my mind that this stuff had survived for two thousand, three thousand years.
 He gathered us around a thirteen-foot-tall stone col-umn with a big sphinx on the top, and started telling
us how it was a grave marker, astele, for a girl about our age. He told us about the carvings on the sides.
I was trying to listen to what he had to say, because it was kind of inter-esting, but everybody around me
was talking, and every time I told them to shut up, the other teacher chaperone, Mrs. Dodds, would give
me the evil eye.
 Mrs. Dodds was this little math teacher from Georgia who always wore a black leather jacket, even
though she was fifty years old. She looked mean enough to ride a Harley right into your locker. She had
come to Yancy halfway through the year, when our last math teacher had a nervous breakdown.
 From her first day, Mrs. Dodds loved Nancy Bobofit and figured I was devil spawn. She would point
her crooked finger at me and say, "Now, honey," real sweet, and I knew I was going to get after-school
detention for a month.
 One time, after she'd made me erase answers out of old math workbooks until midnight, I told Grover I
didn't think Mrs. Dodds was human. He looked at me, real seri-ous, and said, "You're absolutely right."
 Mr. Brunner kept talking about Greek funeral art.
 Finally, Nancy Bobofit snickered something about the naked guy on the stele, and I turned around and
said, "Will you shut up ?"
 It came out louder than I meant it to.
 The whole group laughed. Mr. Brunner stopped his story.
 "Mr. Jackson," he said, "did you have a comment?"
 My face was totally red. I said, "No, sir.
 Mr. Brunner pointed to one of the pictures on the stele. "Perhaps you'll tell us what this picture
represents?"
 I looked at the carving, and felt a flush of relief, because I actually recognized it. "That's Kronos eating
his kids, right?"
 "Yes," Mr. Brunner said, obviously not satisfied. "And he did this because ..."
 "Well..." I racked my brain to remember. "Kronos was the king god, and—"
 "God?" Mr. Brunner asked.
 "Titan," I corrected myself. "And ... he didn't trust his kids, who were the gods. So, um, Kronos ate
them, right? But hiswife hid baby Zeus, and gave Kronos a rock to eat instead. And later, when Zeus
grew up, he tricked his dad, Kronos, into barfing up his brothers and sisters—"